Let's imagine that we want to create a class pyramid and
we will also create
a small main function basically just to test that our pyramid class works.
So let's imagine in main,
we want to create a pyramid and we want to initialize it with a length of one,
a width of two and a height of three,
and then we want to
assert that each side
is in fact what we think it is, assertpyramid.Length.
We'll use an accessor function there that is equal to one and
then we'll copy and paste the same function.
So assertpyramid.Width is equal to two and assert pyramid.Height is equal to three,
and then what we'd want to do is assert that pyramid.Volume is equal to
some number and we'll leave it for now as an exercise to go
figure out what that number should be and how to calculate the volume of a pyramid.
But for now, let's just say that we want to create
this class pyramid and a pyramid privately it
should have an int length and int width.
Actually we'll put those trail and underscores after the private member variables,
just to remind us that they're private.
We don't have to put that trail and underscore,
but it's a convention and
let's say that we want to have a constructor and that constructor will take int length,
int width, int height and we'll create an initializer list.
We'll say that length is going to be initialized to the length parameter
and the width member variable is going to be
initialized to the width parameter and the same thing with height.
There we go, and then of course here we'd want some getter.
Excuse me, so that's not going to be pyramid.
That's going to be int length and that'll be
a constant because it's not going to change the state of the object,
and we'll just say that that's going to return length and so on and so forth.
Length, width,
height, and the same here, height, width.
So let's test and see whether our pyramid class or this program even compiles.
So let's say g++ and we'll use C++ 17,
and we'll try and compile pyramid.cpp,
and oh, we don't have assert.
We're going to need to include cassert in order to
get the assert function and it compiles,
and if we run a.out, everything works.
Great. So what else do we need to add here to our pyramid class?
Well, there are a few things I might imagine.
We have accessors and a lot of times when you have accessors,
you typically want mutators.
Right now we don't have any way to change the length,
width, and height of a pyramid.
So we may want to update that.
Otherwise, if we don't want to add mutators,
we might want to mark these private member variables as constants.
So once they get initialized,
they can never be changed.
But let's say that we want to have a mutatable pyramid.
So we want to add mutator functions and then
we want to think about if we have these accessors and mutators,
typically it's because there's some class invariant.
Otherwise, we might as well just make the member data,
member variables public and have the user be able to set them
directly and in fact we could even turn
this whole thing into a struct if that were the case.
But we have this as a class for a reason and we have
these member variables as private for a reason,
and think about what that reason might be and if you have trouble
figuring out why you might want to have an invariant on those values.
Think about what might happen, say,
if you were to try and set this pyramid length to negative one.
Think about how you might want to protect against that both
in the mutators and in the constructor.
We have an empty constructor now and we
initialize the member variables
through this class initializer or through this initialization list,
but we need to think about how we want to protect and enforce that class invariant,
and then of course we want to figure out how do
we add and calculate this volume function.
So there's a lot of interesting stuff going on here.
It's a pretty simple class,
but it gives you a sense of a lot of
the different things that you might consider when you're creating a class and trying
to enforce these invariants and initialize
the values and set the accessors and mutator functions properly.